## Linked List
### Basic ###
#### Data structure ###
~~~
public class ListNode {
	int val;
	ListNode next;
	public ListNode(int val){
		this.val = val;
	}
	public ListNode(int val, ListNode next) {
		this.next = next;
	}
}
~~~

### Questions ###
1. Linked list basic operations

	Insert/Delete/Search
	
2. Merge two sorted linked list [Easy]
	
	Given two sorted list, merge to one sorted list.
	
	Tips: 
		
		* Corner case: one list is null or both lists are null.
		* Use helper head node to simplify the process.
		* don't forget to add tail to the merged list.
	
	Code: 
	
3. Merge k sorted linked list 

	Tips:

		* Two solutions: 1), sum(n) * k 2), usual priorityQueue sum(n) * log(k)
		* Java PriorityQueue constructor: new PriorityQueue(initCapacity, new Comparator());
	Code:

4. Reverse list
	
	Tips:
		
		* use two pointers, p1 is the new list, p2 point to current head of old list.
		* p1 initialize to null, p2 initlialize to head.
		* store p2.next in temp.
		* p2.next = p1;
		* p2 becoming new head, hence set p1 = p2, p2 becoming current head of old list.
		* stop the loop unitl the head of old list(p2) is null.
	
	Code: 
5. Remove duplication from list

	Tips:
		
		* use a helper node as the head of answer
		* use a pointer cur to represent te last elements of answer list
		* travelling the origin list, if node not equals to cur node, append to cur node, and set the cur node 
		to the new end.
		* after complete travelling the origin list, set cur.next = null, and return helper.next
		
	Code: 

6. Remove duplication from list 2
	
	Tips:
	
		* null and sinle node list check
		* travelling the list
		* add node to the answer list while, there are only count 1 for node.
		* Don't forget the last node.
		* set the answer tail to null. 
		
	Code:
	
	
7. Remove Nth node from end of List

	Tips:
		
		* use a dummy node
		* corner case: empty list, n invalid, n < 0 or n > length
		* corner case: remove the first node or remove the last node
		
	Code:

8. Detect cycle in linked list
		
		* check null or only one node in list
		* two pointers, p1 from head node, p2 from node next to head.
		* while p2 and p2.next != null, if p1 == p2, it's cycle
		* p1 = p1.next, p2 = p2.next.next
		* if p2 == null || p2.next == null, has no cycle
		
9. Find first node of cycle in linked list
		
		* check if the linked list has cycle, and get a node from cycle
		* two solutions can be find in code section
	
	Code: 
	
	More: remove the cycle
	
10. Check two linked list intersection
		
		Three case:
		
		* both non cycle.
		* both have cycle
		* one have cycle
		
		Tips:
		
		* check if the linked list have cycle or not. 

11. copy list with random pointer

		Solution:
		* append a clone node after each node
		* create the random pointer, the random pointer in new list is next to randmon in original list
		* split the list in to two.
		
		Tips:
		Make sure the restore the origin list
		
		Code:

12. partition List

		Solution:
		* partition the origin list into two list, one has elements smaller than x, other greater than x.
		* use two helper node to represent the head of new partitioned lists
		* append the second after the tail of first list
		* set the tail of second list to null
		
		Code:

13. Reverse Linked List II
		Leetcode: [reverse linked list 2](https://oj.leetcode.com/problems/reverse-linked-list-ii/)

		Solution:
		* calculate how much node to reverse and which node to start
		* need to store the previous node of sub list( to be reverse)
		* run reverse, we get the sub list(with node reversed)
		* afeter the reverse , we have following nodes: 
			previous // the node previous the sub list
			p1 // the new head of sub list
			p2 // next node after the sub list
			p // the tail of the sub list 
		after sub list.
		* previous->next = p1; p.next = p2;
		* use a extra support node will simplify the process
		
		Code:
		
14. Reverse Nodes In K-Group
	
		Solution 1:
		* check whether the left node is enough for reverse, if yes do reverse k node, and continue with reest
		* write a reverse function to return first/last node of reversed sut list, the node next to last node of reversed list
		* complex O(O), but need to travelling list twice, one is count the list length, another is reverse the list
		
		Solution 2:
		* greedy, try to reverse k nodes in the rest of list, continue the same algorithm if there is enough node in the list.
		* otherwise reverse back the change.
		* create a support node to simplify the process
		* the reverse function need to accept the head of rest of list, and the previous node which was complete the reverse work, after the sub list (k-group), let the previouse.next = head of the reversed sub list(k-group), and need to return tail of reversed sub list as the previous node of next iteration, and the next node in the rest list as the head of next iteration.
		
		Solution 3:
		* use the recursive solution, count k nodes, and recursive on rest of list
		
		Tips:
		* create a help node to simplify the process
		* use an array of ListNode to return multi nodes in reverse function
		* use null to if the reverse function have no enough nodes. 
		* how to count the nodes in reverse function, if the p1 = head, and p2 = head.next, we should count for k-1, if the p1 = null, p2 = head, we should count for k. the seconds solution in reverse the list looks like better

15. Convert Sorted List to Binary Search Tree
	
		complexity n log(n)
		
		Solution:
		1), calculate the list length.
		2), seek for the mid node of the list
		3), build the treeNode(mid.val)
		4), recurisive on both side. (length of left = (len-1)/2, length of right = len - (len+1)/2 )
	
16. Sort Linked List

		Tips:
		1. Use merge sort
		2. pre-calculate the length or use to pointers one step-1 another steps-2 to ditermine the start of 
		second half, break the link before recursive on both side.

17. Rotate Lists by right n 
		
		Tips:
		* calculate the list length, and find actuals node to rotate, and the last node in origin list
		* find the new tail node. 
		* new tail is (len-n)-th node from the head
		* new head is the tail.next, and set tail.next = null, set origin tail.next = head; 
		* corner case: the new tail is the original tail.
		
		Use the list length, use a tail node when rotate list, it;s easier to handling in code
		
18. Copy List with random pointer
		
		Tips:
		*copy 
19. Add two numbers
		
		Tips:
		Add the tail
		
20. Swap Nodes in pair

		Tips:
		* need to store the next node to iterate

	Code:
	
	
21. Insertion Sort Linked List

		Tips
		* return head when doing insertion
		* use p.next to compare to insert into p.next 	

22. Reorder List

		Tips:
		* reverse the seconds half, then do a merge
		* careful about the corner case when do merge, such as: 1->2->3, 1->2 is the first half, 3 is the second half
		be careful when coding, 2 is pretty easy to be ignored. 
		* there is recurisve solution, time complexity O(n^2)


# Tips ###
1. Use a helper node
2. need very careful when change the next pointer of any node, usually need to store the original next node before reset the next pointer. 
2. Calculate the list length ahead(Convert list to BST, )
3. Consider null list or list only have one node
4. Remember the start node when travelling the list
5. Consider the last node or tail
7. Sometimes need to set tail.next = null
8. Use a concrete example(for rolate/reverse/reverse-k, etc.
9. To delete a node p, need to find a previous node of the p.
10. Merge sort a list is better then quicksort, because of the hard select of pivot node in list, the quicksort could be n^2.
11. 1-step move and 2-step move to detect cycle, 